# VIP-AAD
This was my notebook from my time in the Automated Algorithm Design Vertically Integrated Project (VIP).

The goals of Automated Algorithm Design are to develop a framework that fundamentally alters the development of algorithms. We desire to create an automated method that starts with the best human algorithms and then dispassionately develops hybrid algorithms that outperform existing methods. Next, we prove that these algorithms can also be studied by humans for inspiration in development of new algorithm and optimization methods.

Traditional genetic programming (GP) combines simple basis functions such as arithmetic and logical operators on scalar features to evolve a population of tree structures. Each tree describes a single resulting algorithm. By using higher-level input features such as vectors, matrices, images, and videos, we can integrate higher-level basis functions to operate on these features. These much more advanced basis functions can be combined with the standard set genetic program operators to enable MOGP to design human readable, human-competitive, algorithms directly from data. This is valuable in our current age of big data when algorithm design can be challenging for a researcher, especially when working with multiple competing objectives. Using multi-objective optimization provides not just a single resulting algorithm but rather a set of Pareto optimal algorithms that span all desired objectives. From the set of optimal algorithms, a human can select the algorithm that best meets their needs as circumstances change, e.g., we will accept a higher false alarm rate for a lower probability of missed detections, or hardware processing power increases. MOGP techniques can free up a researcher’s time to steer the optimization towards certain solutions by analyzing the data and resulting programs as well as to analyze the solutions in search of new inspiration for new basis functions, which we believe is a significantly better use of a human mind.

In Fall 2022 I started doing the bootcamp to understand Genetic Programing and what EMADE is. During bootcamp, we did the common machine learning Titanic project. However, there was a twist because instead of just using machine learning algorithms, we used EMADE. At the end of the Fall semester I joined the Scoliosis sub-team sponsored by Shriners Children's Hospital. Our ultimate goal was to make a machine learning model that takes in a spine x-ray image and outputs scoliosis measurements like a Cobb angle. I read all of the papers about the Scoliosis project, and started on the .xml file. During Spring 2023, I specifically worked on converting the AASCE model from PyTorch to Keras. From the conversions, I created graphs on the differences in the training sets using my previous experience in matplotlib. Additionally, I used the Azure Machine Learning Studio and had a notebook in the studio during my time on the Scoliosis subteam.

**Website of VIP:** https://www.vip.gatech.edu/teams/vvk  
**Link to PDF of Notebook:** https://drive.google.com/file/d/1vYnMV7A4zK3D1hIwkZIy8mlLiSNbQmpq/view?usp=sharing
